# 11 October 2019

***
## Digital Library 
Together with Tommaso we have discussed the next steps we should take. We basically talked about the strategy to apply for the new items that  are about to be digitalised: mini-videos (a set of hundred of frames). These videos could also be protected by copyright license, so this is another limit we should take care about on our elaboration.  
We will discuss and deepen much more in this, once I get back from the FORCE2019 conference.

##COCI presentation for FORCE2019 
I have prepared a presentation of almost 20 pages to present at the FORCE2019 in Edinburg, Scotland. (15-17 October 2019).  
My presentation is scheduled on Wednesday, October 16, 11:30am - 12:00  pm. Here is the GoogleDoc link to it:  
[GoogleDoc presentation link: FORCE2019 COCI 
](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1XAqy7M3rAUFSyu-4XVbhM6Ppo51NPILNnpWRWQy4RDA/edit?usp=sharing 
)  
Or you can try the PDF to view the pdf version at:
[https://ivanhb.github.io/phd/activity/force11-2019/coci_presentation.pdf](https://ivanhb.github.io/phd/activity/force11-2019/coci_presentation.pdf)

## The FORCE2019 Panel: 'Citations: how open do we want them?'
Together with Silvio we discussed the topics of the panel, and how to address the issues of it. Bianca Kramer sent me a list of questions to take in consideration for such event:

###What does openness mean for citations?
Following the Open Citation: Definition, defined by Silvio and David:

* Citation data is: Structured; Separated; Open; 
* The Citing and cited entities of a Citation should be: Identifiable; Available; 

### What are the potential uses cases for open citations?
* **Topologically**: through the definition of citing-cited graph evolution over time;
* **Sociologically**: identifying researchers behaviours, or elitist access paths;
* **Quantitatively**: creating citation-based metrics for impact evaluation; 
* **Financially**: defining the researcher's scholarly “value” within their communities.
: Look at Stephen curry presentation
:deepen into the third and fourth point

### Which is the best approach when sourcing citations that are currently not openly available?
Recently OpenCitations has published and promoted a new index called CROCI. The Idea behind this new Index is to let users/researchers in this case be part of the Open Citation importance. Of course, this will ask researchers to give a little extra effort, but conferences like this are the best occasion to show and enforce the idea that these extra effort is important, from a community prospective. 
:We have tools and software which offer and convert Scholarcy

### Can citations really be subject to copyright and/or database licensing, when they are simply statements of fact about relationships between publications?
Here we are talking about a link, and this look very much non sense. And considering the beneficial outcomes we might gain (as said before), it’s really important to make them free accessible. Researchers are the first actors to benefit from such behaviour.
:the “Link Tax” 

## Tutor support for the introductive seminaries of DHDK
### Angelo Di Iorio presenting "Basi web developing strategies"
The basic Web technologies and definitions have been introduced to the new DHDK cycle of students 2019/2020. These have been divided into 2  seminaries of 3 hours each. I have attended both, helping Angelo mostly on the exercise/application session. 
### Francesco Poggi presenting "Github Basiscs"
I have attended the last 2 hours of Francesco's presentation, and helped him in the exercise session and the application of Github main commands.
 