# 25 October 2019

## The Digital Library: Progresses
I have talked with Tommaso Vitale about the next issues to address:

1. The Digital Library will include new elements in it which are represented as micro-videos, each micro-video is a set of images. We need to create an alternative view for these items.
2. Some of the items are restricted only for internal (unibo network) visualisation. This is a serious main issue, since the Digital Library we are creating is designed to be LOD, and Omeka-s provides a REST API service to query and retrieve such data. Alternatively, we can create a parallel service to store and handle such items. This issue is still open and needs to be discussed with Prof. Citti, which Tommaso will talk to in the next days.
3. We need to add an export service for the items visualised. The most requested formats are RDF, and JSON.      

## The annual doctoral meeting
On the 22 of October I have attended a meeting which addresses all the Ph.D. students of the FICLIT department. Here I have discussed the achievements I have done on my first Ph.D. year. In addition, I am now associated to a new supervisor: Prof. Grandi.

## A report for my research fellow year at OpenCitations
The FICLIT office asked me to write and send a report which summarises the things done during my research fellow year at the OpenCitaions organisation (from 1/11/2017 to 1/11/2018).

## Attending the seminary: The Digital Humanist. The past, the present and… the future?
Domenico Fiormonte started from some general reflections on the edge of "The Digital Humanist: A Critical Inquiry" (Punctum Books, 2015). Then he moved on the exploration of the current role of DH in society and culture, envisaging future directions.

## Ph.D. progresses
I am currently stuck in this dilemma: 

1. **Check the available datasets and then define some research questions**  
_OR_ 
2. **Define my research questions, and then check how I can handle/answer them**

Regarding the first approach, I have moved on a general reading regarding the datasets licenses, and what are the things that I can do as a researcher on the datasets having different licenses and polices on their re-use. Some interesting points:
>
* **Using Creative Commons Zero (CC0) for scholarly work**
[https://stuartlawson.org/2017/03/using-creative-commons-zero-cc0-for-scholarly-work/](https://stuartlawson.org/2017/03/using-creative-commons-zero-cc0-for-scholarly-work/)
>
* **CC0 is the best open data license**
[https://pietercolpaert.be/open%20data/2017/02/23/cc0.html](https://pietercolpaert.be/open%20data/2017/02/23/cc0.html)
>
* **A list of CC0 books repositories**
[https://inspiredpublic.com/books/](https://inspiredpublic.com/books/)

I hope the meeting with Silvio will let me have new interesting prospectives/strategies on how to move next.
 