# 6 September 2019

***
## Attending ISSI-2019 in Rome
 I have attended the [ISSI 2019](https://www.issi2019.org/) - 17th international conference on scientometrics & informetrics in Rome this last week.  
The ISSI 2019 Conference provides an international forum for scientists, research managers and administrators, as well as information and communication related professionals to share research and debate the advancements of informetric and scientometric theory and applications.
I have contributed into 2 main events in it:

* Present my Ph.D. work at the doctoral forum: Each Ph.D. student participating into the doctoral forum made a quick 7 min presentation to explain his Ph.D. work and studies. I have uploaded my presentation (in pdf format) at the following link: [https://tinyurl.com/y3m7pvzr](https://tinyurl.com/y3m7pvzr
). I have received very interesting feedbacks right after my presentation, which I can summarize in the following lines, which are taken from the comments written by Vincent Larivière and Cassidy Sugimoto:

> Function of citations in the humanities. Focus on articles instead of books. But missing part: make sure that you include them in some way (as cited documents, at least). Also must consider primary sources/archival materials, art (as an object), and other types of materials. A strong contribution is a semantic model that incorporates multiple genres.  
How does the audience [in the author's mind] bends the author's practice of citing?  Will I restrain myself from citing a given ‘difficult’ text if I'm writing for the general public?  
National vs international literature: this also suggests that you will have use/combine multilingual ontologies. Excellent point. 
Have a look at open information extraction models! Here's a good example: http://rali.iro.umontreal.ca/rali/?q=fr/node/1551. Also, research focus in Humanities is often "local" and thus published in local languages. Regarding my previous comment, you will probably have to rely on a bunch of linguistic models for each task, and even train them yourself. But the problem is that you will need a sort of ground truth to evaluate their performance.  
The way mathematicians cite the old literature is closer to how authors do it in the humanities vs. in the other sciences. Many descriptive inferences can be made by a more comprehensive resource on humanities citing...but is that good for the humanities? What will we do with this knowledge? Fine-tune recommender systems so that hot-of-the-press papers don't get too much attention compared to ancient books getting OCRed ;-) ? Tackle questions such as: how did the advent of computerised communication bent scholarship in the humanities (looking at whqt authors cite)? Will it not eventually be adopted as an evaluative framework? Is that a good thing for the humanities? 

* Hosting the "Workshop on Open Citations: Opportunities and Ongoing Developments". This was a 4 hour workshop organized into 2 sessions: in the first part: Crossref, OpenCitations, Dimensions, and I4OC have been generally introduced. In this case I have made a presentation about "OpenCitations, an infrastructure for open citation data" ([https://tinyurl.com/y4ucgshq](https://tinyurl.com/y4ucgshq
)). On the second part I have made a tutorial on the OpenCitations and Crossref API services.([https://tinyurl.com/y6daucp5](https://tinyurl.com/y6daucp5)), in this session the people attending the workshop have been distributed into 3 different groups according to the tutorial/tools they are mostly interested in, in my session (OpenCitations and Crossref APIs) I had almost 15 person attending it. 
